# BlackjackMiniProject
template from https://python-alhindi.blogspot.com/2013/11/mini-project-blackjack.html

Blackjack is a simple, popular card game that is played in many casinos. Cards in Blackjack have the following values: an ace may be valued as either 1 or 11 (player's choice), face cards (kings, queens and jacks) are valued at 10 and the value of the remaining cards corresponds to their number. During a round of Blackjack, the players plays against a dealer with the goal of building a hand (a collection of cards) whose cards have a total value that is higher than the value of the dealer's hand, but not over 21.  (A round of Blackjack is also sometimes referred to as a hand.)
The game logic for our simplified version of Blackjack is as follows. The player and the dealer are each dealt two cards initially with one of the dealer's cards being dealt faced down (his hole card). The player may then ask for the dealer to repeatedly "hit" his hand by dealing him another card. If, at any point, the value of the player's hand exceeds 21, the player is "busted" and loses immediately. At any point prior to busting, the player may "stand" and the dealer will then hit his hand until the value of his hand is 17 or more. (For the dealer, aces count as 11 unless it causes the dealer's hand to bust). If the dealer busts, the player wins. Otherwise, the player and dealer then compare the values of their hands and the hand with the higher value wins.The dealer wins ties in our version.
Mini-project development process
We suggest you develop your Blackjack game in two phases. The first phase will concentrate on implementing the basic logic of Blackjack while the second phase will focus on building a more full-featured version. In phase one, you will use buttons to control the game and print the state of the game to the console using print statements. In the second phase, you will replace the print statements by drawing images and text on the canvas and add some extra game logic.
In phase one, we will provide testing templates for four of the steps. The templates are designed to check whether your class implementations work correctly. You should copy your class definition into the testing template and compare the console output generated by running the template with the provided output. If the output matches, it is likely that your implementation of the class is correct. DO NOT PROCEED TO THE NEXT STEP UNTIL YOUR CODE WORKS WITH THE PROVIDED TESTING TEMPLATE. Debugging code that uses incorrectly implemented classes is extremely difficult. Avoid this problem by using our provided testing templates.
Phase one
Download the program template for this mini-project and review the class definition for the Card class. This class is already implemented so your task is to familiarize yourself with the code. Start by pasting the Card class definition into the provided testing template and verifying that our implementation works as expected.
Implement the methods __init__, __str__, add_card for the Hand class. We suggest modeling a hand as a list of cards. For help in implementing the __str__ method for hands, refer back to practice exercise number four from last week. Remember to use the string method for cards to convert each card object into a string. Once you have implemented the Hand class, test it using the provided testing template.
Implement the methods for the Deck class listed in the mini-project template. We suggest modeling a deck of cards as list of cards. You can generate this list using a pair of nested for loops or a list comprehension. Remember to use the Card initializer to create your cards. Userandom.shuffle() to shuffle this deck of cards. Once you have implemented the Deck class, test your Deck class using the provided testing template. Remember that the deck is randomized after shuffling, so the output of the testing template should match the output in the comments in form but not in exact value.
Implement the handler for a "Deal" button that shuffles the deck and deals the two cards to both the dealer and the player. The event handlerdeal for this button should shuffle the deck (stored as a global variable), create new player and dealer hands (stored as global variables), and add two cards to each hand. To transfer a card from the deck to a hand, you should use the deal_card method of the Deck class and theadd_card method of Hand class in combination. The resulting hands should be printed to the console with an appropriate message indicating which hand is which.
Implement the get_value method for the Hand class. You should use the provided VALUE dictionary to look up the value of a single card in conjunction with the logic explained in the video lecture for this project to compute the value of a hand. Once you have implemented theget_value method, test it using the provided testing template . 
Implement the handler for a "Hit" button. If the value of the hand is less than or equal to 21, clicking this button adds an extra card to player's hand. If the value exceeds 21 after being hit, print "You have busted".
Implement the handler for a "Stand" button. If the player has busted, remind the player that they have busted. Otherwise, repeatedly hit the dealer until his hand has value 17 or more (using a while loop). If the dealer busts, let the player know. Otherwise, compare the value of the player's and dealer's hands. If the value of the player's hand is less than or equal to the dealer's hand, the dealer wins. Otherwise the player has won.Remember the dealer wins ties in our version.
In our version of Blackjack, a hand is automatically dealt to the player and dealer when the program starts. In particular, the program template includes a call to the deal() function during initialization. At this point, we would suggest testing your implementation of Blackjack extensively.
Phase two
In the second phase of your implementation, you will add five features. For those involving drawing with global variables, remember to initialize these variables to appropriate values (like creating empty hands for the player and dealer) just before starting the frame.  
Implement your own draw method for the Hand class using the draw method of the Card class. We suggest drawing a hand as a horizontal sequence of cards where the parameter pos is the position of the upper left corner of the leftmost card. To simplify your code, you may assume that only the first five cards of a player's hand need to be visible on the canvas.
Replace printing in the console by drawing text messages on the canvas. We suggest adding a global outcome string that is drawn in the draw handler using draw_text. These messages should prompt the player to take some require action and have a form similar to "Hit or stand?" and "New deal?". Also, draw the title of the game, "Blackjack", somewhere on the canvas.
Add logic using the global variable in_play that keeps track of whether the player's hand is still being played. If the round is still in play, you should draw an image of the back of a card (provided in the template) over the dealer's first (hole) card to hide it. Once the round is over, the dealer's hole card should be displayed.
Add a score counter that keeps track of wins and losses for your Blackjack session. In the simplest case (see our demo), the program displays wins minus losses. However, you are welcome to implement a more sophisticated betting/scoring system.
Modify the logic for the "Deal" button to create and shuffle a new deck (or restock and shuffle an existing deck) each time the "Deal" button is clicked. This change avoids the situation where the deck becomes empty during play.
Finally, modify the deal function such that, if the "Deal" button is clicked during the middle of a round, the program reports that the player lost the round and updates the score appropriately.
Congratulations! You have just built Blackjack. To wrap things up, please review the demo of our version of Blackjack in the Blackjack video lecture to ensure that your version has full functionality.

CODE :
# Mini-project #6 - Blackjack

import simplegui
import random

# load card sprite - 949x392 - source: jfitz.com
CARD_SIZE = (73, 98)
CARD_CENTER = (36.5, 49)
card_images = simplegui.load_image("http://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-assets/cards.jfitz.png")

CARD_BACK_SIZE = (71, 96)
CARD_BACK_CENTER = (35.5, 48)
card_back = simplegui.load_image("http://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/codeskulptor-assets/card_back.png")

# initialize global variables
in_play = False
message = ""
outcome = ""
score = 0
popped = []
player = []
dealer = []
deck = []

# define globals for cards
SUITS = ('C', 'S', 'H', 'D')
RANKS = ('A', '2', '3', '4', '5', '6', '7', '8', '9', 'T', 'J', 'Q', 'K')
VALUES = {'A':1, '2':2, '3':3, '4':4, '5':5, '6':6, '7':7, '8':8, '9':9, 'T':10, 'J':10, 'Q':10, 'K':10}

# Card class. Hand class calls this draw method for rendering card images onto canvas
class Card:
    def __init__(self, suit, rank):
        if (suit in SUITS) and (rank in RANKS):
            self.suit = suit
            self.rank = rank
        else:
            self.suit = None
            self.rank = None

    def __str__(self):
        return self.suit + self.rank

    def get_suit(self):
        return self.suit

    def get_rank(self):
        return self.rank

    def draw(self, canvas, pos):
        card_loc = (CARD_CENTER[0] + CARD_SIZE[0] * RANKS.index(self.rank), 
                    CARD_CENTER[1] + CARD_SIZE[1] * SUITS.index(self.suit))
        canvas.draw_image(card_images, card_loc, CARD_SIZE, [pos[0] + CARD_CENTER[0], pos[1] + CARD_CENTER[1]], CARD_SIZE)
        
# Hand class used for adding card objects from Deck() and for getting the value of hands
class Hand:
    def __init__(self):
        self.player_hand = []

    def __str__(self):
        s = ''
        for c in self.player_hand:
            s = s + str(c) + ' '
        return s

    def add_card(self, card):
        self.player_hand.append(card)
        return self.player_hand

    def get_value(self):
        value = 0
        for card in self.player_hand:
            rank = card.get_rank()
            value = value + VALUES[rank]
        for card in self.player_hand:
            rank = card.get_rank()    
            if rank == 'A' and value <= 11:
                value += 10
        return value
    
    def draw(self, canvas, p):
        pos = p
        for card in self.player_hand:
            card.draw(canvas, p)
            pos[0] = pos[0] + 90
        if in_play == True:
            canvas.draw_image(card_back, CARD_BACK_CENTER, CARD_BACK_SIZE, [115.5,184], CARD_BACK_SIZE)
        
# Deck class used for re-shuffling between hands and giving card objects to Hand as called
class Deck:
    def __init__(self):
        popped = []
        self.cards = [Card(suit, rank) for suit in SUITS for rank in RANKS]
        self.shuffle()
        
    def __str__(self):
        s = ''
        for c in self.cards:
            s = s + str(c) + ' '
        return s

    def shuffle(self):
        random.shuffle(self.cards)

    def deal_card(self):
        popped = self.cards.pop(0)
        return popped
    
def deal():
    # deal function deals initial hands and adjusts message.
    global in_play, player, dealer, deck, message, score, outcome
    if in_play == True:
        # if player clicks Deal button during a hand, player loses hand in progress
        message = "Here is the new hand"
        score -= 1
        deck = Deck()
        player = Hand()
        dealer = Hand()
        player.add_card(deck.deal_card())
        dealer.add_card(deck.deal_card())
        player.add_card(deck.deal_card())
        dealer.add_card(deck.deal_card())
    if in_play == False:
        # starts a new hand
        deck = Deck()
        player = Hand()
        dealer = Hand()
        player.add_card(deck.deal_card())
        dealer.add_card(deck.deal_card())
        player.add_card(deck.deal_card())
        dealer.add_card(deck.deal_card())
        message = "New Hand. Hit or Stand?"
    in_play = True
    outcome = ""

def hit():
    # deals player a new hand and ends hand if it causes a bust.
    global in_play, score, message
    if in_play == True:
        player.add_card(deck.deal_card())
        message = "Hit or Stand?"
        if player.get_value() > 21:
            in_play = False
            message = "Player busted! You Lose! Play again?"
            score -= 1
            outcome = "Dealer: " + str(dealer.get_value()) + "  Player: " + str(player.get_value())

def stand():
    # hits dealer until >=17 or busts. Determines winner of hand and adjusts score, game state, and messages
    global in_play, score, message, outcome
    if in_play == False:
        message = "The hand is already over. Deal again."
    else:
        while dealer.get_value() < 17:
            dealer.add_card(deck.deal_card())
        if dealer.get_value() > 21:
            message = "Dealer busted. You win! Play again?"
            score += 1
            in_play = False
            
        elif dealer.get_value() > player.get_value():
            message = "Dealer wins! Play again?"
            score -= 1
            in_play = False
        
        elif dealer.get_value() == player.get_value():
            message = "Tie! Dealer wins! Play again?"
            score -= 1
            in_play = False
        
        elif dealer.get_value() < player.get_value():
            message = "You win! Play again?"
            score += 1
            in_play = False
            
        outcome = "Dealer: " + str(dealer.get_value()) + "  Player: " + str(player.get_value())
        
def exit():
    frame.stop()
    
# draw handler
def draw(canvas):
    canvas.draw_text("Blackjack", [270,50], 48, "Yellow")
    canvas.draw_text("Score : " + str(score), [80,520], 36, "Black")
    canvas.draw_text("Dealer :", [80,110], 30, "Black")
    canvas.draw_text("Player :", [80,300], 30, "Black")
    canvas.draw_text(message, [200,480], 26, "Black")
    canvas.draw_text(outcome, [80,560], 28, "White")
    dealer.draw(canvas, [80,135])
    player.draw(canvas, [80,325])
    

# initialization frame
frame = simplegui.create_frame("Blackjack", 700, 600)
frame.set_canvas_background("Green")

# buttons and canvas callback
frame.add_button("Deal", deal, 200)
frame.add_button("Hit", hit, 200)
frame.add_button("Stand", stand, 200)
frame.add_button("Exit", exit, 200)
frame.set_draw_handler(draw)

# deals initial hand
deal()

# get things rolling
frame.start()

# http://www.codeskulptor.org/#user26_ZvPjz7GLuE8FuyP.py

